# 进程管理



## 线程 & 进程



## 线程调度



## 死锁及其解决办法



# 内存管理





参考：[《Operating System Concepts Essentials》]( https://book.douban.com/subject/26299735/ )







# Linux



## select VS poll VS epoll

### [select、poll、epoll](http://www.ulduzsoft.com/2014/01/select-poll-epoll-practical-difference-for-system-architects/)      

tl;dr: 

`polling with select()` : Hence *select* carries quite a few design flaws which make it undesirable as a polling mechanism in the modern networking application.

the major disadvantages of select : To find out which descriptors raised the events you have to **manually iterate through all the descriptors**

`polling with poll()` : *poll* was mainly created to fix the pending problems *select* had*,* so it has the following advantages over it:

1. There is no hard limit on the number of descriptors *poll* can monitor
2. it can detect remote peer shutdown without monitoring for read events.

Nevertheless poll still has a few issues which need to be kept in mind:

1. Like *select*, it is still not possible to find out which descriptors have the events triggered without **iterating** through the whole list and checking the revents. Worse, the same happens in the kernel space as well, as the kernel has to iterate through the list of file descriptors to find out which sockets are monitored, and **iterate through the whole list again to set up the events**.
2. Like *select*, it is not possible to dynamically modify the set or close the socket which is being polled

*poll* should be your preferred method even over *epoll* if the following is true:

1. You need to **support more than just Linux**, and do not want to use epoll wrappers such as libevent (**epoll is Linux only**);
2. Your application needs to **monitor less than 1000 sockets** at a time (you are not likely to see any benefits from using epoll);
3. Your application needs to monitor more than 1000 sockets at a time, but the **connections are very short-lived** (this is a close case, but most likely in this scenario you are not likely to see any benefits from using epoll because the speedup in event waiting would be wasted on adding those new descriptors into the set – see below)
4. Your application is not designed the way that it changes the events while another thread is waiting for them (i.e. you’re not porting an app using kqueue or IO Completion Ports).

`polling with epoll()` : epoll is the latest, greatest, newest polling method in Linux (and **only Linux**). Well, it was actually added to kernel in 2002, so it is not so new. It differs both from *poll* and *select* in such a way that **it keeps the information about the currently monitored descriptors and associated events inside the kernel, and exports the API to add/remove/modify those.**

epoll: **event based poll**.

*epoll* has some significant advantages over *select/poll* both in terms of performance and functionality:

- *epoll* **returns only the list of descriptors which triggered the events**. No need to iterate through 10,000 descriptors anymore to find that one which triggered the event!
- You can **attach meaningful context to the monitored event** instead of socket file descriptors. In our example we attached the class pointers which could be called directly, saving you another lookup.
- You can **add sockets or remove them from monitoring anytime**, even if another thread is in the *epoll_wait* function. You can even modify the descriptor events. Everything will work properly, and this behavior is supported and documented. This gives you much more flexibility in implementation.
- Since the kernel knows all the monitoring descriptors, it can register the events happening on them even when nobody is calling *epoll_wait*. This allows implementing interesting features such as edge triggering, which will be described in a separate article.
- It is possible to have the multiple threads waiting on the same epoll queue with *epoll_wait*(), something you cannot do with *select/poll*. In fact it is not only possible with epoll, but the recommended method in the edge triggering mode.

**disadvantages when comparing to *poll*:**

- Changing the event flags (i.e. from READ to WRITE) requires the ***epoll_ctl* syscall**, while when using *poll* this is a simple bitmask operation done entirely in userspace. Switching 5,000 sockets from reading to writing with *epoll* would require 5,000 syscalls and hence context switches (as of 2014 calls to *epoll_ctl* still could not be batched, and each descriptor must be changed separately), while in poll it would require a single loop over the *pollfd* structure.
- Each *accept*()*ed* socket needs to be added to the set, and same as above, with epoll it has to be done by calling *epoll_ctl* – which means there are **two required syscalls per new connection socket instead of one for poll**. If your **server has many short-lived connections which send or receive little traffic, *epoll* will likely take longer than *poll* to serve them.**
- *epoll* is **exclusively Linux domain**, and while other platforms have similar mechanisms, they are not exactly the same – edge triggering, for example, is pretty unique (FreeBSD’s kqueue supports it too though).
- High performance processing logic is more complex and hence **more difficult to debug**, especially for edge triggering which is prone to deadlocks if you miss extra read/write.

**should only use epoll if all following is true:** 

- Your application runs a thread poll which **handles many network connections by a handful of threads**. You would lose most of *epoll* benefits in a single-threaded application, and most likely it won’t outperform *poll*.
- You expect to have a reasonably large number of sockets to monitor (at least 1,000); with a smaller number epoll is not likely to have any performance benefits over poll and may actually worse the performance;
- **Your connections are relatively long-lived**; as stated above epoll will be slower than poll in a situation when a new connection sends a few bytes of data and immediately disconnects because of extra system call required to add the descriptor into epoll set;
- Your app depends on other Linux-specific features (so in case portability question would suddenly pop up, **epoll wouldn’t be the only roadblock**), or you can provide wrappers for other supported systems. In the last case you should strongly consider libevent.

`polling with libevent`: [libebent](http://libevent.org/) is a library which **wraps the polling methods listed in this article** (and some others) in an uniform API.Its main advantage is that it allows you to write the code once and compile and run it on many operating systems without the need to change the code. It is important to understand that **libevent it is just a wrapper built on top of the existing polling methods, and therefore it inherits the issues those polling methods have**. It will not make *select* supporting more than 1024 sockets on Linux or allow *epoll* to modify the polling events without a syscall/context switch. Therefore it is still important to understand each method’s pros and cons.

### [poll vs select vs event based——author of CURL](https://daniel.haxx.se/docs/poll-vs-select.html)

### [discuss on stackoverflow ](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4039832/select-vs-poll-vs-epoll)


